
Workflow
********


Table of Contents
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Workflow

  * Authoring Scenes

  * Exporting Scenes

  * Displaying Scenes in the Viewer

    * Example

  * Application Development

Developing any product is a creative process with many participants
who have different skills and experience. However no matter how
complex it is and what is the target it's always possible to separate
the production stage in which the bulk of assets and source code is
authored.

When using Blend4Web the workflow is the following:

1. Authoring 3D scenes in Blender.

2. Exporting scenes.

3. Running, tweaking and debugging scenes in the Viewer.

4. Creating the target application.


Authoring Scenes
================

Besides the usual stages such as modeling, texturing, animation etc a
scene should be prepared for working in the engine.

General recommendations:

1. We strongly recommend to save your blend files in the
   "blender/project_name" directory. Auxiliary files which are not
   intended for loading in your app (for example, references), should
   be located there as well.

2. Images and media files should be external and located in the
   "deploy/assets/project_name" directory.

3. Files from which you export should contain resources which are
   actually required in your application (objects, materials,
   textures, animation etc).

4. Scene components should have distinct names. They should not be
   named "Cube.001", "Material" or "Armature".

5. We recommend you to practice linking components from other files
   (libraries).


Exporting Scenes
================

The export procedure converts the scene from the Blender format to one
of the formats used by Blend4Web.

[image]

There are two formats: JSON and HTML.

The JSON format is used for complex projects that require programming,
while HTML is used for more simple, stand-alone applications. Format
differences and export options are described in the Export Formats
chapter.

To export the scene, select "Blend4Web (.json)" or "Blend4Web (.html)"
option from the "File > Export" menu, or type "b4w export" in the
operatop search menu (available by pressing "Spacebar").

Note: If the scene uses Blender features not yet supported by the
  Blend4Web engine, errors may occur during export. Export errors are
  listed in this table.

Export options are described in detail in the corresponding section.


Displaying Scenes in the Viewer
===============================

When using the local development server it's possible to preview
current scene using "Fast Preview" button, located on the
"Scene->Development Server" panel in Blender. In this case the scene
will be exported inside some temporary storage and loaded in the
Viewer app.

The other method is using Run in Viewer export option. In this case
the scene will be displayed in the Viewer app immediately after the
export.

For the long-term storage of the scene in the scene list of the
viewer, it's required to manually add the entry to the
"apps_dev/viewer/assets.json" text file. This file is opened
automatically in Blender if you are using Blend4Web SDK.

Use the "Text Editor" to modify it:

[image]



Then select the "assets.json" file in the window to edit it:

[image]



To add a new scene you need to know the category in which it should be
displayed. The category normally corresponds to the project name and
to the name of the directory where the corresponding files are stored.


Example
-------

For example below you can see a part of "assets.json". In this file
there are two projects - "Capri" and "Fridge" each with corresponding
scenes:

   {
       name: "Capri",
       items: [
           {
               name: "Baken",
               load_file : "capri/props/baken/baken.json"
           },
           {
               name: "Terrain",
               load_file : "capri/landscape/terrain/terrain.json"
           }
       ]
   },
   {
       name: "Fridge",
       items: [
           {
               name: "Apple",
               load_file : "fridge/fruits/apple/apple.json"
           },
           {
               name: "Mango",
               load_file : "fridge/fruits/mango/mango.json"
           }
       ]
   }

To add a new scene you can copy and paste a similar scene's
description to the required category and then edit its name and path
to the exported file.

A successfully added scene should appear in the scenes' list of the
viewer  in the required category.

[image]


Application Development
=======================

At this stage an application is created. Logic for scene loading and
user interaction is written using JavaScript. The application
developer notes are given in the corresponding section.
